#summary Learning FDS
=Learning FDS=
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />
----

|| Part of the following text is adapted from _FDS User's Guide_ ||

=What is FDS?=

The NIST Fire Dynamics Simulator (FDS) is a computational fluid dynamics model of fire-driven fluid flow. The software solves numerically a form of the Navier-Stokes equations appropriate for low-speed, thermally-driven flow, with an emphasis on smoke and heat transport from fires.

=Who uses FDS?=

Users are warned that FDS is intended for use only by those competent in the fields of fluid dynamics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, combustion, and fire science, and is intended only to supplement the informed judgment of the qualified user. FDS is a computer model that may or may not have predictive capability when applied to a specific set of factual circumstances. Lack of accurate predictions by the model could lead to erroneous conclusions with regard to fire safety. All results should be evaluated by an informed user.

=Who develops FDS?=

|| To those that develop and release FDS in the public domain a great thank you! ||

The Fire Dynamics Simulator and Smokeview are the products of an international collaborative effort led by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. Its developers and contributors are listed below:

 * Principal Developers of FDS:
   * [http://www.nist.gov/el/fire_research/kmcgrattan.cfm Kevin McGrattan, NIST]
   * [http://www.vtt.fi/research/technology/fire_safety_technology.jsp?lang=en Simo Hostikka, VTT]
   * [http://www.nist.gov/el/fire_research/rmcdermott.cfm Randall McDermott, NIST]
   * [http://www.haifire.com/ Jason Floyd, Hughes Associates, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland, USA]
   * [http://www.nist.gov/el/fire_research/cweinschenk.cfm Craig Weinschenk, NIST]
   * [http://www.nist.gov/el/fire_research/koverholt.cfm Kristopher Overholt, NIST]

 * Principal Developer of Smokeview
   * [http://www.nist.gov/el/fire_research/gforney.cfm Glenn Forney, NIST]

 * Principal Developer of FDS+Evac
   * [http://www.vtt.fi/research/technology/fire_safety_technology.jsp?lang=en Timo Korhonen, VTT]

 * Contributors
   * Susan Kilian, hhpberlin, Germany
   * Vivien Lecoustre, University of Maryland, USA
   * Charles Luo, Global Engineering and Materials, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey, USA
   * Anna Matala, VTT
   * William Mell, U.S. Forest Service, Seattle, Washington, USA
   * Topi Sikanen, VTT
   * Ben Trettel, The University of Texas at Austin, USA

=FDS support=

The main source for FDS support is [http://code.google.com/p/fds-smv/ its main website].
There you can find tutorials, manuals, videos, and help from the Community.

=A simple coursebook is available=

When starting, FDS official documentation can appear a little overwhelming. This is why a simpler book is available: visit [http://www.emanuelegissi.eu] and download the free and open _"An introduction to fire simulation with FDS and Smokeview"_ courseware.

