#summary FDSSyntax highlighting

Syntax highlighting is a feature of some text editors that display text in different colors and fonts according to the category of terms. This page lists various sources for FDS syntax highlighting applied to text editors.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

----

= Smultron Syntax Highlighting Plugin (for MAC OSX only) =

This plugin updates the list of Smultron syntax definitions. 
Using this FREE text editor you can now highlight the FDS keywords ver.5.4.x
For example: using "#" at the begin of each row,  you will see the comment in green color. For those who want to have the total control on the .fds files. and love to use CLI (Command Line Interface), that is a cool free solution.
Now using "FDS Syntax Highlighting" it will be easier way to read the .fds files. 
TRY IT. 
 
== Download ==
Plugin compatible with FDS 5.4.x keywords: [http://www.tidestudio.com/DOWNLOAD/Smultron_SHxFDS5.4.x.zip Smultron_SHxFDS5.4.x.zip]

Plugin compatible with FDS 5.5.x keywords: [http://www.tidestudio.com/DOWNLOAD/Smultron_SHxFDS5.5.x.zip Smultron_SHxFDS5.5.x.zip]

=== Hashing ===
SHA1(Smultron_SHxFDS5.4.x.zip)= 51edd255b19e77a916d116e9901784ea0a025e59

SHA1(Smultron_SHxFDS5.5.x.zip)= 43a2271cae0cf6fc49d51c64897c71a76e1bb719

== How to install ==
1) Download and install SMULTRON text editor (Freeware).
 You can download the latest version for:
  
  - Leopard (10.5 and above) from [https://sourceforge.net/projects/smultron/files/smultron/3.5.1/Smultron-3.5.1.zip/download here]
 
  - Snow Leopard (10.6.x) there is a special beta version [https://sourceforge.net/projects/smultron/files/smultron/3.6b1/Smultron-3.6b1.zip/download here] 
       	   (which should fix most bugs introduced in Snow Leopard and some others as well as being generally faster. Please note that there are no localizations included)

2) Quit Smultron before start installation process.

3) Finder → Go → Application → Smultron.app ( then right click → explore contained);

4) Open Resource directory;

5) Overwrite "SyntaxDefinitions.plist";

6) Open "Syntax Definitions" directory;

7) Copy "fds.plist";

Now start Smultron and load any .fds file. That is all. Good work

== Release history ==
2010/06/03 ver.0.2-a developed on FDS 5.5.x
2009/11/17 ver.0.1-a developed on FDS 5.4.x 

== Contact ==
Please do not hesitated to contact me to communicate eventual problems or councils.
Email: [mailto:parsipal@gmail.com parsipal@gmail.com]

== Copyright and Copyleft ==
- Smultron_SHxFDS: Plugin is released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).

- Smultron: created, designed and programmed by Peter Borg.  With tabs from Positive Spin Media. With regular expressions from IBM & CocoaICU

- All trademarks and icons are the property of their respective owners.



= gedit Syntax Highlighting Plugin ( for Linux, MAC OSX, Microsoft Windows)=
gedit is the official text editor of the GNOME  desktop environment. Available for Linux, Mac OSX, Windows OS.
You can download [http://projects.gnome.org/gedit/index.html here]

== Download ==
Provisional:

[http://blenderfds.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/other/syntax%20highlight/gedit%20fds%20syntax%20highlight.zip gedit fds syntax highlight.zip]

=== Hashing ===

SHA1: C7901DD89798A6E780FB2D83432E3D424CB15E33

== How to install ==
To do...

== Release history ==
To do...

== Contact ==
Please do not hesitated to contact me to communicate eventual problems or councils.

== Copyright and Copyleft ==
- gedit_SHxFDS: Plugin is released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).

- gedit: Released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).

- All trademarks and icons are the property of their respective owners.



= Notepad++ (for Microsoft Windows) =
You can download from [http://notepad-plus.sourceforge.net/uk/site.htm here]

== Download ==
fds+evac User-Defined language
FILE NAME: fds+evac.xml [http://blenderfds.googlecode.com/files/fds%2Bevac_notepad.zip here]
=== Hashing ===

SHA1:3FA7C7079BD681988A242F601E68A06E4CED9941
== How to install ==
1. Unzip the downloaded file to a temporary location.

2. Locate your application data folder for Notepad++, i.e. %APP_DATA%/NOTEPAD++

e.g. C:/My Documents and Settings/User/Application Data/Notepad++/

3. Open userDefineLang.xml file. 

4. If userDefineLang.xml is blank, then simply replace the contents with fds+evac.xml.

5. If userDefineLang.xml contains other user defined language, then merge the existing contents with fds+evac.xml.